this lecture is about the feedback in
the language modeling approach in this
lecture we will continue the discussion
of feedback and intensity retrieval in
particular we're going to talk about the
feedback in language modeling approaches
so we derived the query likelihood
ranking function by making various
assumptions as the piece could retrieve
a function that formula all those
formulas worked well but if we think
about the feedback information it's a
little bit awkward to use query like
hold to perform feedback because a lot
of times the feedback information is
additional information about the query
but we assume that the query is
generated by sampling words from lambda
model in the query likelihood method
it's kind of a natural to sample words
that form feedback documents as a result
and researchers proposed a way to
generalize clear like hold up function
and it's called a callback labor
divergence retrieval model and this
model is actually going to make the
query likelihood our retrieval function
much closer to vector space model yet
this form of the damage model can be
regarded as a generalization of query
like hold in the sense that it can cover
clearly likelihood as a special case and
in this case then feedback can be
achieved as through simply query model
estimation or updating this is very
similar to Rocio which updates the query
vector so let's see what is this care
divergence which we want model so on the
top what you see is a query like holder
which will function right this one
and then KL divergence also called
cross-entropy retriever model is
basically to generalize the frequency
part here into a language model so
basically it's the difference given by
the probabilistic model here to
characterize what the user is looking
for versus the count of query words
there and this difference allows us to
plug in various different ways to
estimate this so this can be estimated
in many different ways including using
feedback information now this is called
a care divergence because this can be
interpreted as measuring the Kerr
divergence of two distributions one is
the query model denoted by this
distribution one is the talking the
language model here and smooth the with
cracking language model of course and we
are not going to talk about the detail
of that and we'll find it in some
references it's also called a cross
entropy because in the fact we can
ignore some terms in the KL divergence
function and we will end up having
actually cross entropy and that both are
trans in information theory but anyway
for our purpose here you can just see
the two formulas look almost identical
except that here we have a probability
of award given by a query language model
know this and here the sum is over all
the words that are in the document and
also with the nonzero probability for
the query model so it's kind of again a
generalization of sum over all the magic
query words now you can also easily see
we can
recover the queer like hope which we
know from him by simply setting this
current model to the relative frequency
of a word in the query this is very easy
to see once you plug this in to here you
can eliminate this query length that's a
constant and then you'll get exactly
like that so you can see the equivalents
and that's also why this K or divergence
model can be regarded as a
generalization of query like code
because we can cover query like Road as
a special case but it would also allows
us to know much more than that so this
is how we can use the KL divergence
model to then do the feedback the
picture shows that we first aced made
talking the language model then we has
made a query damage model and we compute
the KL divergence is often denoted by a
team here but this basically means this
was exactly like an vector space model
because we compute a vector for the
document or can be another vector for
the query and then we compute the
distance only that these vectors are of
special forms there are probability
distributions and then we get the
results and we can find some feedback
documents let's assume they are mostly
negative sorry
mostly positive documents although we
could also consider both kinds of
documents so what we could do is like in
rocky or whether the computer another
language model called up feedback
language model here again this is going
to be another vector just like a
computing century go back to Iraqi and
then this model can be combined with the
original query model using a linear
interpolation and this would then give
us a updated model just like again in
rocky right so here we can see the
parameter alpha can control the amount
of feedback if it's set to zero then you
say here there's no feedback after set
to one we got full feedback we ignore
the would original query and this is
generally they're not desirable right so
this unless you are absolutely sure you
have seen a lot of relevant documents
and the query terms are not important so
of course the main question here is how
do you computer this CF this is the big
question yeah and once you can do that
the rest is easy
so here we'll talk about one of the
protease and there are many approaches
of course this approach is based on
generative model and I'm going to show
you how it works this is user generated
mix table so this picture shows that we
have this model here the feedback model
that we want to estimate and we're the
basis is the feedback documents let's
say we are observing the positive
documents these are the click the
documents by users or relevant documents
judged by users or simply top-ranked the
knocking that we assumed to be random
and now imagine how we can compute a
centroid for these documents by using
language model one approach is simply to
assume these documents are generated
from this damage model as we did before
what we could do is to just normalize
the word frequency here and then we will
get this word distribution now the
question is whether this distribution is
good for feedback or even imagine the
top-ranked the word would be what what
do you think
well those words will be common words
right as we always see in in a language
model the top-ranked words are actually
common words like a the etc so it's not
very good for feedback because we would
be adding a lot of such words to our
query when we interpret this with the
original query and model so this was not
good so we need to do something in
particular we are trying to get rid of
those common words and we are we're
seeing actually one way to do that by
using background language more
in the case of learning the associations
with of words like the words that are
related to the water computer we could
do that
and that would be another way to do this
but here we are going to talk about
another approach which is a more
principled approach in this case we're
going to say well you say that there are
common words here in this these
documents that should not belong to this
type of model right so now what we can
do is to assume that well those words
are generated from background language
model so they will generate those words
like the example and if we use maximum
like arrays made note that if all the
words here must be generated from this
model then this model is forced to
assign hyperplane is to a word like that
because it occurs so frequently here
note that in order to reduce its
probability in this model we have to
have another model which is this one to
help explain the word here and in this
case it's now appropriate to use the
background language model to achieve
this color because this model would
assign high probabilities to these
common words so being this approach then
we assume this machine that would
generate these words would work as
follows we have a source controller here
imagine we flip a coin here to decide
what distribution to use with
probability of Lemna the coin shows up
as head and we're going to use the
background language model and we can do
that simple word from that model with
the probability of 1 - name now even do
decide to use the unknown topic model
here that we would like to estimate and
we're going to then generate a word here
if we make this assumption and this
whole thing would be just one model and
we call this a mixture model because
there are two distributions that are
mixed together and we actually don't
know when each distribution is you
so again think of this whole thing as
one model and we can stay asked for
words and he was new give us a word in a
random manner right and of course which
word will show up would depend on both
this distribution and that ability in
the tissue would also depend on this
lambda because if you say lambda is very
high and it's going to always use the
background distribution you'll get
different words and then if you say well
emma is very small we're gonna use this
right so all these are parameters in
this model and then if you're thinking
this way basically we can do exactly the
same as what we did before we're going
to use maximum like arrays made to
adjust this model to estimate the
parameters basically we're gonna adjust
well this parameter so that we can best
explain all the data the difference now
is that we are not asking this model
alone to explain this but rather we're
going to ask this whole model mix you
model to explain the data
because it has got some help from the
background model it doesn't have to
assign high probabilities towards Magda
as a result it would then assign higher
probabilities to other words that are
common here but not having high
probability here
so those would be common here I if
they're common they would have to have
high probabilities according to maximum
micro resume them and if they are really
are here right so if they are rare here
then you don't get much help from this
background model as a result this topic
model must assign high probabilities so
the high probability words according to
the topic model would be those that are
common here but rare in the background
okay so this is
basically a little bit like a IDF
waiting here this would allow us to
achieve the effect of removing these top
awards and are meaningless in the
feedback so mathematically what we have
is to compute the like hold again local
I code of the feedback documents and and
note that we also have another parameter
lambda here but we assume that the
lambda denotes the noise in the feedback
document so we are going to let's say
set this to a parameter I'd say say 50%
of the words are noise or nine of them
are noise and this can then be assumed
to be fixed if we assume this is fixed
then we only have these probabilities as
parameters just like in the simplest
unigram damage model we have n
parameters n is the number of words and
then the likelihood function would look
like this it's very similar to the
likelihood function log like recording a
function we see before except that
inside the logarithm there's a sum here
and this sum is because we consider two
distributions and which ones used would
depend on lembeh and that's why we have
this form but mathematically this is the
a function with theta as unknown
variables right so this is just a
function all the other values are known
except for this guy so we can then
choose this probability distribution to
maximize this log like the code the same
idea is the maximum like our estimated
as a mathematical problem we just we
just have to solve this optimization
problem we send you would try all the
theta values and until we find one that
gives this hosting the maximum
probability so it's a well-defined math
problem once we have done that we'll
obtain this theta f that can be then
interpret replace the original query
model to do feedback
so here are some examples of the
feedback model known from a web document
collection and we do sudo feeder Packer
we just use the top ten documents and we
use with this mixture model so the query
is airport security what we do is we
firstly retrieve ten documents from the
web database and this is of course a
pseudo feedback right and then we're
going to fit that mixture model to this
ten document asset and these are the
words learned using this approach this
is the public unity of a word given by
the feedback model in both cases so in
both cases you can see the highest
probability words include a very
relevant words to the query so airport
the security for example these query
words still show up as high
probabilities in each case naturally
because they occur for cleaning the top
round of documents but we also see
beverage alcohol bomb terrorists etc
right so these are relevant to this
topic and they if combined with the
original query can help us much more
accurately and documents and also they
can help us bring up documents that only
imagine that some of these other words
may be for example just the airport and
then bomb for example this so this is
how to defeat about networks issues that
that this model really works and picks
up some related words to the query
what's also interesting is that if you
look at the two tables here and you come
here them and you see in this case when
lemma is set to a small value and we
still see some common words here and
that means when we don't use the
background more often remember lambda
can uses the probability of using
background model to generated a text if
we don't rely much on background model
we still have to use this top of the
model to account for the common
whereas if we set them go to a very high
value we will use the background I'm a
model very often to explain these words
then there's no burden on explaining
those common words in the feedback
documents by the topic model so as a
result of the topic model here is very
discriminative it contains all the
relevant words without common words so
this can be added to the original query
to achieve feedback
so to summarize in this lecture we have
talked about the feedback in language
model approach in general feedback is to
learn from examples these examples can
be assumed examples can be suit examples
like assume the top ten doctrines that
are assumed to be random in that they
could be based on using fractions try to
feedback based on qixels or in Christian
feedback we talked about the three
making feedback scenarios relevance
feedback pseudo feedback and in
principle feedback we talk about how to
use rock you to figure back mean vector
space model and I would mean use query
model estimation for feedback meaning
language model and we briefly talked
about the mixture model the basic idea
there are many other methods for example
the resonance model is a very effective
model for estimating queried model so
you can read more about these methods in
the references that are listed at the
end of this lecture so there are two
additional readings here the first one
is a book that has a systematic review
and discussion of language models of all
information retrieval and signal one is
important the research paper that's
about relevance based language models
and it's a very effective way of
I think we're more